---
layout: post
title: "Getting People To Give Programming A Try"
date: 2015-12-02 20:13:00 -0500
---

If you're reading this post you're probably like me. You find programming very interesting. However not everyone does. What makes it so interesting that keeps us coming back to our computers to write code? For me it's like having an infinite amount of Legos so I can build whatever I want and how big (or small) whatever I'm building to be.

So the question here is, what makes people start coding? There's lots of people who go to school to learn computer science and even IT. This will most definitely get those people to write at least a little bit of code if they want to pass with good grades. However from my experience, many students that do have these majors are being misled. They become bored, expecting to learn how to write iPhone apps, games and cool social networking websites, but get stuck writing boring terminal programs in Java for years. This fact makes a lot of people switch majors.

This is just one entry point to becoming a programmer though. My entry point to the world of code, and computers in general, was curiosity. I was always curious on how things worked. Before I learned about programming, software and how it worked was the most mysterious thing to me. So I figured it would be a lot of fun to gain knowledge about it. I later found out that there is no learning everything about programming. This was great for me. It meant that I can forever indulge into learning with no end. The more I learned the bigger and better software I was able to write, which further grew my amazement with curiosity. With software development, there is no plateu or decline in the capabilty of learning new things of the matter. New ideas and tools come out everyday and things always change in this field, and as a programmer, especially in the open source community you get to be a part of it!

Many people start programming becuase it's beneficial for them. For example an accountant may want to learn how to write software to make his or her job at accounting more feasible. A liquor store owner may want software to help keep track of inventory in the store. Computers can do certain tedious work in the blink of an eye saving people a lot time and money. As a programmer myself, I use computers to my advantage if something takes more than 5 minutes of my time and computers are able to process that work, I automate it through programs.

Having fun is something that almost anyone can enjoy. As you might guess programming is fun. Though, how can it be fun for people who don't code? A lot of people use computers nowadays, for business and for fun. Think about how many hours a day some people play video games. Little do those people know, those expensive consoles that they're playing games on are heavily powered by code. hundreds of thousands, if not, millions of lines of code. This fact may be an incentive for gamers to create their own games. They most certainly won't be able to create games as good as those at first or by themselves, but it will be a perfect entry point to learning how to code. Even if it's little Javascript canvas games like [this one](https://github.com/dibenso/websocket-pong), more often than not, they will be happy to have been able to create their own interactive game.

If you want to get people to give programming a try, give them a reason to make them want to. If they like learning new things, explain to them that there's an unlimited amount of learning involved. Show them how it can help out in their daily lifes making things easier for them. If all else fails show them how fun it can be as a last resort.
